Man has to suffer. When he has no real afflictions, he invents some.
What is written without effort is in general read without pleasure.
Regret for the things we did can be tempered by time; it is regret for the things we did not do that is inconsolable.
The human brain starts working the moment you are born and never stops until you stand up to speak in public.
Man does not live by words alone, despite the fact that sometimes he has to eat them.
Heroing is one of the shortest-lived professions there is.
Whenever I hear, 'It can't be done,' I know I'm close to success.
History is the short trudge from Adam to atom.
I believe in looking reality straight in the eye and denying it.
He who promises more than he is able to perform, is false to himself; and he who does not perform what he has promised, is a traitor to his friend.
SORCERY, n. The ancient prototype and forerunner of political influence. It was, however, deemed less respectable and sometimes was punished by torture and death. Augustine Nicholas relates that a poor peasant who had been accused of sorcery was put to the torture to compel a confession. After enduring a few gentle agonies the suffering simpleton admitted his guilt, but naively asked his tormentors if it were not possible to be a sorcerer without knowing it.
DOG, n. A kind of additional or subsidiary Deity designed to catch the overflow and surplus of the world's worship. This Divine Being in some of his smaller and silkier incarnations takes, in the affection of Woman, the place to which there is no human male aspirant. The Dog is a survival -- an anachronism. He toils not, neither does he spin, yet Solomon in all his glory never lay upon a door-mat all day long, sun-soaked and fly-fed and fat, while his master worked for the means wherewith to purchase the idle wag of the Solomonic tail, seasoned with a look of tolerant recognition.
What difference does it make to the dead, the orphans and the homeless, whether the mad destruction is wrought under the name of totalitarianism or the holy name of liberty or democracy?
Men fear death as children fear to go in the dark; and as that natural fear in children is increased by tales, so is the other.
A bookstore is one of the only pieces of evidence we have that people are still thinking.
Isn't it fascinating how long a few minutes seem when you are completely alone with not a familiar face in sight?
The word 'meaningful' when used today is nearly always meaningless.
I don't have pet peeves, I have whole kennels of irritation.
Under every stone lurks a politician.
If a dog jumps in your lap, it is because he is fond of you; but if a cat does the same thing, it is because your lap is warmer.
Feeling special is the worst kind of cage a person can build for himself.
It is the creative potential itself in human beings that is the image of God.
Brain: an apparatus with which we think we think.
When love is gone, there's always justice. And when justice is gone, there's always force. And when force is gone, there's always Mom. Hi, Mom!
My candle burns at both ends It will not last the night; But ah, my foes, and oh, my friends - It gives a lovely light.
Train yourself to let go of the things you fear to lose.
I adore simple pleasures. They are the last refuge of the complex.
In an industrial society which confuses work and productivity, the necessity of producing has always been an enemy of the desire to create.
In science one tries to tell people, in such a way as to be understood by everyone, something that no one ever knew before. But in poetry, it's the exact opposite.
I have come to realize that all my trouble with living has come from fear and smallness within me.
No one who cannot rejoice in the discovery of his own mistakes deserves to be called a scholar.
One is tempted to define man as a rational animal who always loses his temper when he is called upon to act in accordance with the dictates of reason.
There is scarcely anything in the world that some man cannot make a little worse, and sell a little more cheaply. The person who buys on price alone is this man's lawful prey.
One remembers horrors, I think, for the rest of one's life, but memories do not always remain so sharp, and with time, and new circumstance, do not affect us so powerfully.
Almost nobody dances sober, unless they happen to be insane.
From even the greatest of horrors irony is seldom absent.
The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents. We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of the infinity, and it was not meant that we should voyage far.
It is good to be a cynic — it is better to be a contented cat — and it is best not to exist at all.
If I am mad, it is mercy! May the gods pity the man who in his callousness can remain sane to the hideous end!
Creative minds are uneven, and the best of fabrics have their dull spots.